= KaeruEra

KaeruEra is a bare-bones error tracking application for ruby, tracking
errors that occur in other ruby applications.

It is similar to Errbit[1] but with a much smaller feature set.  The
only advantages that KaeruEra has over Errbit are more advanced
search features, fewer dependencies, and a smaller footprint.  There
are no notification features, source control integration, issue tracker
integration, user information tracking, deploy tracking, or GitHub/LDAP
authentication.  You are responsible for manually integrating the error
reporter into the applications that will be reporting errors.

As another example of the simplicity, KaeruEra does not do error
aggregation.  Instead, for each error, it offers the ability to easily
search for errors with the same class, message, backtrace line, etc..
Any results of that search can be manipulated as a unit.

KaeruEra is not designed to replace an existing error tracking
application.  It's designed to supplement an email notification
about the error.

[1] (https://github.com/errbit/errbit)

== Demo

* URL: http://kaeruera.herokuapp.com
* Login Email: demo
* Login Password: demo

== Source Control/Issue Tracker

https://github.com/jeremyevans/kaeruera

== License

KaeruEra is licensed under the MIT License.

== Design

The KaeruEra database and web server have a fairly simple design.
There are only three tables in the database, users, applications,
and errors.  Each user can have multiple applications, and each
application multiple errors.

In the database, each error is stored is a single row, document
style.  This uses PostgreSQL's advanced types, storing the
backtrace for the error as an array of text fields (text[]),
the environment as an hstore (string key/string value hash table),
and the params and session information as json (since they often
contain nested data).  All of the error columns are indexed for
easy searching.

The web site has a very basic bootstrap design, with only 4 main
pages:

* Front page (choose an application)
* Search page (options for each search field)
* Error List page (see open errors for applications/search results)
* Error page (see all information about a particular error,
    with links to perform searches for similar errors)

=== Error Information Tracked

* Exception Class
* Exception Message
* Exception Backtrace
* Params
* Environment Variables
* Session Variables

The exception class, message, and backtrace are required and are
taken from the underlying ruby exception.

The params, environment, and session information are optional, and
you have to configure the reporting code to include the
information.

=== Updating Errors

Most information for errors is immutable.  The two exceptions are that each error has a notes
field and an open/closed flag.  As long as the error is open, the notes flag can be updated and
it can be closed.  Once it is closed, the error is completely immutable.

== Reporting Errors

KaeruEra is not airbrake compatible.  Instead, it offers separate
libraries for reporting errors.  All libraries are shipped in the
kaeruera gem, installable via:

  gem install kaeruera

=== KaeruEra::DatabaseReporter

This library assumes you can have a direct connection to the
database, and inserts the error directly into the database.

  require 'kaeruera/database_reporter'
  REPORTER = KaeruEra::DatabaseReporter.new('postgres://db_user:pass@host:port/database', 'email@example.com', 'app_name')

Here db_user is the PostgreSQL user name for the connection, email
is the email address for the user account in the KaeruEra application,
and app_name is the application name in KaeruEra.

=== KaeruEra::Reporter

This library uploads the error information to a server
running the web application, via json.

  require 'kaeruera/reporter'
  REPORTER = KaeruEra::Reporter.new('http://host:port/report_error', application_id, 'application_token')

You can use the "Reporter Info" page in the web application to get a line that will work for the given
application.

=== KaeruEra::AsyncReporter

This library is the same as the KaeruEra::Reporter library,
except it runs asynchronously, useful if the application does
not have a fast connection to the KaeruEra server.  The downside
is you don't get the id of the error, and are not notified
if there was a problem reporting the error.

  require 'kaeruera/async_reporter'
  REPORTER = KaeruEra::AsyncReporter.new('http://host:port/report_error', application_id, 'application_token')

=== Usage

All three libraries for reporting errors have the same API:

  REPORTER.report

If called without arguments, it assumes that $! is the error to report.  This makes it easy to use
in a rescue block:

  begin
    #code
  rescue
    REPORTER.report
  end

If the error you want to report is not in $!, you can pass it via the :error option:

  begin
    #code
  rescue => e
    begin
      #more code
    rescue
      REPORTER.report(:error => e)
    end
  end

The params, session, and environment variables are all passed as options :params, :session, and :env.
In each case the values for those options should be hashes.

As reporters are designed to be used in rescue blocks, they swallow any errors raised internally,
since the assumption is that it is better to raise the original error in that case.

The return value of the reporting methods is one of the following:

Integer: The id of the error, indicating the error was successfully reported.
false: There was no error detected (:error option was not set and $! did not indicate an active error)
true: The async reporter received a valid error (it cannot tell whether the error was successfully reported).
StandardError: an exception occurred when trying to report the error, the return value is the exception.

=== Sinatra

If the application reporting errors is running sinatra, you can probably put this in your error block
to report errors to KaeruEra:

  REPORTER.report(:params=>params, :env=>env, :session=>session, :error=>request.env['sinatra.error'])

== Runtime Dependencies

=== KaeruEra::App (web server)

* PostgreSQL 9.2+
* pg
* sinatra
* sequel
* bcrypt-ruby
* forme
* json
* rack_csrf
* rack-compatible web server

=== KaeruEra::DatabaseReporter

* pg
* sequel

=== KaeruEra::Reporter / KaeruEra::AsyncReporter

* rest-client
* json

== Heroku Setup

TODO

== Manual Setup

=== Database Setup

First, copy the example database configuration file:

  cp db_config.rb.example db_config.rb

The rest of the instructions assume you are not modifying the
default database configuration, and that the database super user
for your PostgreSQL database cluster is postgres.  If those
assumptions are inaccurate, you should substitute the appropriate
values.  Also, the examples below do not use a password for the
accounts, so they will only work if localhost is trusted in PostgreSQL.

Create a user for the application:

  createuser -U postgres kaeruera

Then, create databases for the application with that user:

  createdb -U postgres -O kaeruera kaeruera_development
  createdb -U postgres -O kaeruera kaeruera_test
  createdb -U postgres -O kaeruera kaeruera_production

If you don't have hstore as a default extension in your PostgreSQL
template database, you'll have to add it:

  echo 'CREATE EXTENSION hstore' | psql -U postgres kaeruera_development
  echo 'CREATE EXTENSION hstore' | psql -U postgres kaeruera_test
  echo 'CREATE EXTENSION hstore' | psql -U postgres kaeruera_production

Then, you can migrate the database:

  rake dev_up
  rake test_up
  rake production_up

=== User Account Setup

In development mode, the first time the server is started, if you haven't
set up any users manually, a kaeruera user account (login/password kaeruera)
and application named KaeruEraApp will automatically be created for you.
It's recommended that you change the password for this user after logging
in for the first time in development mode.

In all other cases, you have to setup your user accounts manually:

  $ irb -r ./models
  User.create(:email=>'foo', :password=>'bar')

It's recommended that you have a kaeruera user and KaeruEraApp application
for that user, as that is where the web application will log any internal
errors.

=== Session Secret Setup

Create the session secret file:

  ruby -rsecurerandom -e 'puts SecureRandom.hex(30)' > kaeruera.secret

== Testing

To run all tests, use rake's default task:

  rake

This assumes you have already created the test database and migrated the
test database to the latest version.  The following are additional
requirements when running tests:

* Rspec 1
* Unicorn
* Capybara

== Naming

KaeruEra is a transliteration of the Japanese words for frog (kaeru)
and error (era).  One of the first popular error reporting apps for
ruby was named Hoptoad (later renamed to Airbrake), and Errbit I'm
guessing was chosen for its similarity to ribbit (the sound a frog
makes) so this is in keeping with the frog theme.

== Author

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
